Fundamental Synthesizer

This project would take some audio input, such as guitar or voice and convert the signal using an ADC. This converted signal would be read into the ATMega328p, which would then perform an FFT to determine the fundamental frequency. This frequency would then be converted to a value from 0-5V, by varying the duty ratio of the ATMega’s PWM output, through a low-pass filter. This voltage would be used to control the pitch of a Voltage Controlled Oscillator IC, which would produce an output of the pitch using a typical synthesizer waveform (square, sawtooth, etc.). This would provide the ability to have a user’s instrument sound like a synthesizer without having to play a synthesizer, which would be useful for live performances where a synthesizer voice is required, or for composition. The sensor in this project is the ADC, the controller used is an ATMega328p, and the actuator is the Voltage Controlled Oscillator.

Kai's Bad Idea:
This project would be a sound box consisting of a Markov generator that synthesizes various 'songs' using statistical modeling. The device would be pre-trained with various genres from top-10s of different genres and brands (about 10,000 in total), and generates new songs based off such statistical data. It would output MIDI and include a rudimentary onboard synthesizer to generate sound output. Additionally, it includes a speech synthesizer (also trained from a Markov model) to generate lyrics for the songs. The user will select which genre they want, and a few output options, such as filtering. MIDI output also gives the option to hook this device to a computer or other MIDI device to output the song individual elements, such as instruments.


Jeff's idea:

For the ECE 411 Practicum project, I believe it would be educational and fun to build a pitch-only low-power portable 
Theremin with a more conventional volume control to render the full device more compact and simple.  Ideally it could 
run on a 9V power supply and no more than 100mA and have enough drive power for headphones. The basics of pitch 
Theremin design are two close oscillators heterodyned into an RF mixer, with one oscillator frequency controlled by a
variable field capacitance linked to an antenna and nearby hand movement; in a traditional Theremin a similar volume 
antenna drives a voltage controlled amplifier controlling the overall system gain on the difference frequency generated 
by the pitch oscillator mixing stage.  By restricting the scope to a functional pitch circuit and using microcontroller for system 
ain and output filtering, a fun and functional instrument could be created that uses very low power. As an added intrigue, the 
eference oscillator LO against which the FM created by the antenna control is heterodyned could also be amplitude 
modulated to carry an input signal, turning the Theremin design into an antenna controlled LFO mixer capable of introducing 
ew and interesting beat frequencies into an existing signal. 
